---
title: Glossary
layout: support-page
description: No doubt all this GitHub and openness comes with a lot of new vocabulary. Most of the time the word is new but the concept is not; we've got them defined for you here.
permalink: /glossary/
---

* **Branches** - A branch is a parallel version of repository. It is contained within the repository, but does not affect the primary or `master` branch allowing you to work freely without disrupting the "live" version. When you've made the changes you want to make, you can merge your branch back into the `master` branch to publish your changes.
* **Clone** - A clone is a [local](#) copy of a [repository](#) on your computer. With your clone you can edit the files in your preferred editor and use Git to keep track of your changes without having to be online. You can [push](#) your local changes to the [remote](#) to keep them synced when you're online.
* **Collaborator** - Someone who has been invited by an administrator to contribute to a repository and therefore has the ability to make and approve changes.
* **Commits** - A commit is an individual change to a file (or set of files). It's like when you _save_ a file, except with Git, every time you save it creates a unique id that allows you to keep record of what changes where made when and by who. Commits usually contain a commit message which is a brief description of what changes were made.
* **Diff** - This is the _difference_ in changes between two commits, or saved changes. The diff will visually describe what was added or removed from a file since its last commit.
* **Fork** - A fork is a personal copy of another user's repository that lives on your account. Forks allow you to freely make changes to a project without affecting the original. Forks remain attached to the original, allowing you to submit a [pull request](#Pull-Request) to the original's author to update with your changes. You can also keep your fork up to date by [pulling](#Pull) in updates from the original.
* **Git** - Git is an open source program for tracking changes in text-based code. It was written by the author of the Linux operating system, and is the core technology that GitHub, the social and user interface, is built on top of.
* **Issues** - Issues are suggested improvements, tasks or questions related to the repository. Issues can be created by anyone (for public repositories), and are moderated by repository collaborators. Each issue contains its own discussion forum, can be labeled and assigned to a user.
* **Local** - This is a version of something that lives on your computer instead of on a website's server somewhere [remote](#). It is, however, connected to the remote version so that changes can be synced between the two.
* **Markdown** - is an incredibly simple semantic file format, not too disimilar from .doc, .rtf or .txt. Markdown makes it easy for even those without a web-publishing background to write prose (including with links, lists, bullets, etc.) and have it displayed like a website. GitHub supports markdown and you can learn about the semantics [here](https://help.github.com/articles/github-flavored-markdown), or simply press `m` on any markdown-enabled page to pull up a cheat sheet.
* **Open Source** - refers to source code that has been made freely available to others (publically, or within an organization) to use or contribute to.
* **Organizations** - Organizations are a group of two or more users that typically mirror real-world organizations. They are administered by users and can contain both [repositories](#Repositories) and teams.
* **Private Repository** - Private repositories are repositories that can only be viewed or contributed to by their creator and specified collaborators. They're hosted on GitHub.com and require an [upgraded account](http://www.gitub.com/plans).
* **Pull** - refers to when you are taking _in_ changes. For instance, if someone has edited the [remote](#remote) file you're both working on, you'll want to _pull_ in those changes to your [local](#local) copy so that it's up to date.
* **Push** - refers to when you are adding changes to a file. For instance, if you change something [locally](local), you'd want to then _push_ those changes to the [remote](#remote) so that they're in sync.
* **Pull Request** - Pull requests are proposed changes to a repository submitted by a user and accepted or rejected by a repository collaborators. Like issues, pull requests each have their own discussion forum.
* **Remote** - This is the version of something that is hosted on a server, most likely GitHub.com. It can be connected to [local](#) [clones](#) so that changes are can be synced.
* **Repositories** - Repositories are the most basic element of GitHub. They're easiest to imagine as a project's folder. A repository contains all of the projects files (including documentation), and store each file's revision history. Repositories can have multiple collaborators and can be either public or private.
* **Users** - These are personal GitHub accounts. Each user has a personal profile, and can own multiple repositories, public or private. They can create or be invited to join organizations or collaborate on another users repository.
